as auxiliary handle so it's pretty
comfortable to use and made a couple
passes on it and it was like brand new
stainless when I was done hey what's up
Barnaby here you want to know more about
the fine pipe sander set it's got a
three and a quarter amp motor it's
capable of sanding from 516 2 308 and
it's got six speeds but what we like to
do is put tools like this into the hands
of people that really know what they're
doing so they can tell us what the tool
is all about in this case it's Tom goals
so what do you do for a living I'm a
welder fabricator of a shop downtown
Grand Rapids called 120c welding and
fabricating ok so what sort of things do
you weld up it's mostly just general
fabrication parts and pieces for for
industry and things that things that you
would never see you know ok so when we
put this tool into your hands tell us
about how it all went for you mean it's
a pretty specialized tool yeah it really
is and it's something that I knew
existed but had never actually used one
mm-hmm but the moment I got I just took
it out and it was obvious how it runs it
has Emery it also has scotch brite
attachments you don't need any tools to
put the grits in it which is real nice
as an auxiliary handle so it's pretty
comfortable to use it's a heavy tool
yeah but it needs to be has a simple
switch on it with with a delay it
doesn't just fire right up so when you
turn it on it hesitates for a second and
then the motor engages ok so that's
billed as a bit of a safety switch yeah
yeah it's also if it had a trigger you
couldn't you'd be stuck with your hand
in one spot all the time ok yeah there's
some thought into who's going to use it
right and what you use it for I used it
on initially just some some cold rolled
steel pipe that was in the rack that was
rusty and we clamped it up and put some
120 grit and made a couple passes on it
and it was like brand new stainless when
it was done yeah how would you have done
it previously would just get a roll of
Emery paper and just wrap it around it
and
you know manually pull the paper around
the tube and spend hours right as
opposed to as opposed to seconds wow
yeah yeah learning curve with it I
didn't have a learning curve with it I
you know I just I start grabbing things
off the rack I grabbed a motorcycle tank
they had that with a lots of large
radius as I know and it was rusty had
been stripped of paint start hitting
hitting the radiuses of that and it
brought it down to bare bare metal and
it was really nice I did some fork legs
from a motorcycle that were very old
that needed that same you know polishing
and it was it was clean new aluminum in
seconds wow so it'll take the nasty
stuff off but it also put a nice finish
put a nice finish yeah yeah six speeds
did that come into play for you it did
but I didn't you know I think the slower
speeds maybe for the heavier grime you
know if you're maybe if you're if you
join a tube and it's welded you're going
to put a heavier grit paper and turn the
speed down and actually grind that well
done yeah and then go to a higher grit
paper and turn the speed up and get more
of a Polish to it so did it come with
any extra sandpaper or the bread box was
filled with it yeah yeah Wow all this
came with all of that yeah headed for
roles of Emery mm-hmm for 10 packs and
then a handful of the scotch brite belts
yeah so that was pretty surprising yeah
what's the word you figure you get the
other replacement belts for it I'm
thinking at a industrial supply okay
maybe a welding supply or something like
that all right it's not going to be your
local big button no they're not okay and
then the cord you know a lot of people
talk about the cord being an important
consideration because you don't want to
just be kind of caught short with a tool
and of cord for it more than enough yes
probably 10 feet okay well you know if
somebody came to you tom and asked you
should i buy this tool or not you've
used it for a bit what would you tell
them I'd say you're gonna have to
justify buying it with a with a job you
know a large job because it's an it's an
expensive tool but it takes time off the
job and puts money in your pocket okay
so you just have to like
yeah I have a big job I got a lot of
polishing to do it's worth it absolutely
cool all right you know it's always good
to get some insight of a person that
knows what they're talking about
somebody with experience with the tool
that you're thinking about and that's
what you're always going to get right
here at tool select com
you